ds(1) -- Docker Scripts
=======================

## SYNOPSIS

   `ds` *COMMAND*


## DESCRIPTION

   DockerScripts is a shell script framework for Docker which
   simplifies managing containers in a context. Each container is like
   a virtual machine that has an application installed inside. Each
   container has a base directory where the settings of the container
   are stored (in the file *settings.sh*). The command `ds` picks the
   parameters that it needs from the file *settings.sh* in the current
   directory.


## COMMANDS

* `init` *<src_dir>*, `info`

    Initialize a working directory by getting the file *settings.sh*
    from the given source directory. Show some of the current
    settings.

* `build`, `create`, `config`

    Build the image, create the container, and configure the guest
    system inside the container.

* `start`, `stop`, `restart`

    Start, stop and restart the container.

* `shell`

    Get a shell on the container.

* `exec`

    Execute a command inside the container.

* `snapshot`

    Make a snapshot of the container.

* `remove`

    Remove the container and the image.

* `help`

    Display a help message.



## FILES

   `./settings.sh`
          It is located in directory of the container and keeps
          the settings of the container and the application installed
          inside it.


## CUSTOMIZATION

The file `$SRC/ds.sh` or `./ds.sh` can be used to redefine and
customize some functions, without having to touch the code of the main
script.  Also, custom commands can be defined for each container by
adding the file `./cmd/command.sh`, which contains the function
`cmd_command() { . . . }`.


## INSTALLATION

   user@laptop:~$ `git clone https://github.com/docker-scripts/ds`
   user@laptop:~$ `cd ds/`
   user@laptop:~$ `sudo make install`
   user@laptop:~$ `ds help`


## USAGE

   Some examples of using `ds` are shown below.

### Installing Moodle

   user@laptop:~# `git clone https://github.com/docker-scripts/moodle /usr/local/src/moodle`
   user@laptop:~# `mkdir -p /var/containers/moodle1`
   user@laptop:~# `cd /var/containers/moodle1/`
   user@laptop:~# `ds init /usr/local/src/moodle`
   user@laptop:~# `vim settings.sh`
   user@laptop:~# `ds build`
   user@laptop:~# `ds create`
   user@laptop:~# `ds config`
   user@laptop:~# `ds shell`


## AUTHOR

   Copyright (C) 2017  Dashamir Hoxha (dashohoxha@gmail.com). The
   code is on GitHub at <https://github.com/dashohoxha/ds>.


## COPYLEFT

   This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
   the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
   (at your option) any later version.

   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
   GNU General Public License for more details.

   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
   along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
